Paying with credit cards isn't always better than paying 
with cash. Retailers honor credit cards because they want
to make it easy for you to shop there. 
But the merchants still have to pay the major credit card
companies a portion of every sale in the form of a 
transaction fee.

BOTTOM LINE

A) The bottom line refers to a company's net income, 
which is presented at the bottom of the income statement.

B) Management can increase the bottom line by 
enacting strategies to increase revenues or decrease 
expenses.

C) Net income, or the bottom line, can be retained for 
future use in the business, distributed in the form of 
dividends, or used to repurchase shares of outstanding 
stock.

If credit is not paid on time:

Originally Answered: I have large credit card debt that I cannot pay, what happens if I don't pay?
Not paying your credit card bills have a slew of nasty consequences and they get nastier as the times passes. Almost certain consequences are – stress and damage to your credit standing.

The experience of not paying your credit card bills will be something like this:

1. You may be charged late fees – With no payments coming through every month, you’ll incur late fees and penalties. Each time you don’t pay, more penalties will be added to your balance and your credit limit will get reduced. Also, there’ll be a high interest piling up on your balance.

2. Your credit account may get delinquent – If you miss making one payment, your credit card provider will report to the credit bureau. This can cause a significant drop in your credit score. Imagine what would happen when you miss more than one payment! Your credit score will take a scary plunge, making it difficult to live your life.

3. Your credit card provider may charge-off your credit account– If you have been consistently not paying your credit card debts, your credit card company will write you off as a loss. This charge-off will be reported to the credit bureau and this is not good. Because it will show in the credit report and it could be challenging for you to obtain credit for a while.

4. You may be referred to the collections department – Your credit card company may pass on your credit account to the collections department in an attempt to recover the loss. Once your account goes into collections, it will be reported to the credit bureau (yet another negative remark). You’ll have to deal with the collectors as they try to extract money from you. This can be very stressful. If you want the collectors off your back, you may have to pay the debt for less than what’s worth to just get over with it.

5. There may be a legal case against you – In the meantime, your credit card provider may take legal action against you for not paying your dues. You have to pay, nevertheless and you also have a legal case against you –that’s two negative items on your credit report.

Sad, but true. You cannot run away from debt. It will find you.









